Meeting on irc.gnome.org:#gtk-devel
Meeting started July 20 2004 17:02 EST (21:02 UTC)

In attendence: 

Jonathan Blandford (jrb), Matthias Clasen (mclasen),
Federico Mena Quintero (federico), James M. Cape (Jimbob),
Soeren Sandmann (ssp)

<mclasen>	coffee!
<jrb>	coffee!!
<mclasen>	ok, got mine. Shall we start ?
<mclasen>	The one thing I put on the agenda was "making the meeting more accessible", since I saw the discussion on gtk-devel-list between federico and billh regarding participation of the a11y team in this meeting...
<jrb>	sure
<mclasen>	bill proposed to move the meeting to an earlier time, like 10am EST
<mclasen>	to give the sun people in ireland a chance to participate
<jrb>	do we think they'd show up if we hed it then?
<mclasen>	We could try and invite them. If they don't show up, we can move back to the old time...
<jrb>	sounds reasonable
<ssp>	Would it help if they did? Isn't the problem that their patches don't get reviewed?
<mclasen>	or maybe we can just do a singular "joint gtk/atk meeting"
<mclasen>	ssp: the a11y combobox patches have been looked at
<mclasen>	we just didn't really like the proposed api
<mclasen>	unfortunately, we don't really have a better proposal either, short of moving the a11y implementation inside gtk
<mclasen>	the problem is that we want to hide implementation details in the combobox api, but a11y seems to need access to all the details
<mclasen>	like position of characters on the screen, things like that
<jrb>	the reason the a11y implementation isn't in GTK+ is there was no way to do that and get GTK+ 2.0 out
<mclasen>	but now that GtkCellView is no longer private, maybe we can take another look at the combobox a11y problem
<jrb>	it's probably worth reassessing that
<mclasen>	with a strict separation between gtk and the a11y impl, it is not possible to have private widgets in gtk which are accessible...
<mclasen>	but coming back to making the meeting time. Would a time like 10am EST be accessible for all participants ?
<jrb>	mclasen: yeah.  Though we have added a11y-only calls in the past to get things working, eg: gtk_tree_view_set_destroy_count_func
<federico>	why don't we have a11y implementations inside gtk?
<mclasen>	federico: the combobox a11y bug contains an answer from Padraig why he didn't want to write a patch for that
<mclasen>	basically, he would have to duplicate a lot of auxiliary code which currently lives in atk
<ssp>	10 am EST would be fine by me
<Jimbob>	mclasen: As a pseudo-lurker, 10a is about 2h too early for me (I've got classes until 11:45a EST).
<Jimbob>	But a11y takes precidence over me being able to pseudo-lurk, IMO :-)
<jrb>	Jimbob:  you have code in GTK+ now, don't you?
<Jimbob>	jrb: proposed code, anyways
<mclasen>	ok, then I guess we'll try the early time next week, and I'll send a special invitation to the a11y guys. 
<mclasen>	We should probably discuss a11y then next week...
<mclasen>	do we have other topics to discuss ? 
<mclasen>	according to www.gtk.org/plan/2.6, we'll do weekly 2.5.x releases until 2.6.0...
<mclasen>	since we have done 2.5.0 now, we should probably start looking for volunteers...
<ssp>	weekly??
<ssp>	that sounds like overkill to me
<mclasen>	ah, it says "every other week", so thats probably biweekly
<mclasen>	which probably makes more sense
<mclasen>	what features can we expect to land during the next two weeks ?
<ssp>	mclasen: so let us put 'release volunteer' on the agenda for the next meeting
<mclasen>	ssp: yes
<mclasen>	federico: do you plan to work on any of the 2.6 file chooser additions during the next 2 weeks ?
<federico>	mclasen: yeah, I guess I should
<federico>	need to talk to people about what sort of APIs they want
<federico>	btw, during a subsequent meeting, should we talk again about synchronizing gtk to the gnome schedule?
<mclasen>	do we really want that ? Do THEY really want that ?
<federico>	the problem with staggered releases is that it takes *two* gnome releases for gtk+ features to reach users
<jrb>	federico: you want the ellipsizing, don't you
<federico>	jrb: that, but also the (currently nonexistent) searching APIs for gtkfilechooser
<federico>	also, if we were synchronized, I think it would make people pay more attention to gtk and contribute more to it
<mclasen>	...and get more early testing of new apis
<jrb>	federico: it's not unreasonable
<federico>	so while 2.6 is too late now for gnome's purposes, I think we could afford to cut the gtk 2.8 schedule a bit short and synchronize it with gnome
<mclasen>	federico: would the gnome release team be willing to depend on an unreleased gtk ? 
<ssp>	I'm not convinced it's a good idea. I am affraid it will make GNOME people think they get to decide the direction of gtk+
<jrb>	mclasen: we do for all the other libraries.
<mclasen>	ok, I guess we should discuss this again when we get closer to the 2.6 release
<mclasen>	last topic before I have to run off: did anybody look into the icon theme sharing/mmap stuff which has been discussed ?
<federico>	not me, but if alan's library is as tiny as he boasts, then it could be a nice little toy to have in gtk or glib
<mclasen>	what about the performance patches which we put into 2.5.0 now, I think we had the idea to maybe backport them to 2.4.x if they haven't caused problems in 2.5.x for a while
<mclasen>	would it be appropriate to target that for 2.4.5, or should we wait longer before doing that ? 
<federico>	I run my system with HEAD, and nothing has broken so far; I really don't know if it is faster :)
<federico>	any speed increase is probably offset by my laptop's frequent swapfests
<mclasen>	the icon theme sharing could help there...
<mclasen>	...at least a bit
<ssp>	mclasen: When is 2.4.5?
<mclasen>	I think we said 5-6 weeks after 2.4.4 until something urgent shows up
<ssp>	mclasen: andersca pointed out a bug in the update counter code that should be fixed before we put it in stable
<mclasen>	ssp: ok, I'll ask again before I do 2.4.5...
<federico>	brb
<ssp>	mclasen:  I'm not sure the unset bg patch should go into stable at all, but the predictive expose should be pretty safe
<mclasen>	ok
<mclasen>	I'll have to go now. Bye


Meeting ended July 20 18:00 EST (22:00 UTC)
