Meeting on irc.gnome.org:#gtk-devel
Meeting started September 7 2004 17:03 EST (21:03 UTC)

In attendence: 

Anders Carlsson (andersca_) Matthias Clasen (mclasen), Owen Taylor (owen),
Federico Mena Quintero (federico), Billy Biggs (vektor), Soeren Sandmann (ssp_)


<mclasen>	Is everybody here ? I guess we should start...
<andersca_>	sure
<mclasen>	Does anybody have additional agenda items ?
<owen>	No, but I can cross off my agenda item...
<federico>	other than the approach to milestones?
<owen>	(or defer it anyways)
<owen>	since I ended up not getting to figuring out anything for Pango
<federico>	what's the plan wrt gnome 2.8?  are we code-frozen right now?
<mclasen>	owen: ok, deferred
<andersca_>	isn't there a good enough version of gtk+ (2.4.9) out?
<andersca_>	good enough for gnome 2.8.0 that is
<owen>	federico: Well, I dont' think we are observing the freeze, but consequently we really should avoid doing another 2.4.x release before 2.8 unless we really have to 
<owen>	(Or if we really have to, we should branch from 2.4.9 to do it)
<mclasen>	following the general plan of 4-6 weeks between stable releases, 2.4.10 would be due in early October
<mclasen>	kmaraas fixed a memory leak in the file chooser yesterday
<andersca_>	was it bad?
<mclasen>	don't know. the bug was #151985
<andersca_>	there are worse bugs in gnome 2.8 than a file chooser leak...
<mclasen>	yes, I don't plan to do a release for that
<mclasen>	andersca_: what is the state of the icon cache footprint reduction patch which you worked on ?
<andersca_>	mclasen: ...working pretty good last I tried
<andersca_>	let me put it up somewhere
<andersca_>	http://andersca.org/patches/icon-theme-cache.diff
<andersca_>	http://andersca.org/patches/generate.tar.gz
<andersca_>	it doesn't cache pixbuf data, but that could be fixed using the gdk-pixdata stuff
<mclasen>	andersca_: thanks
<mclasen>	What about the const for gtk_check_version(), federico ? Do you still need that urgently, or is it ok to just fix that in HEAD ?
<federico>	mclasen: not that urgently now; they patched gtk#
<federico>	mclasen: I'll put it just in HEAD
<mclasen>	federico: ok, please remember to change glib HEAD accordingly
<mclasen>	ok, I have one more question. How do people feel about the PLT reduction changes that are currently in GTK+ head ? Do they work ok ? 
<mclasen>	Is there a good way to hide the gtkalias.h dependencies from make ?
<mclasen>	I'm asking because I wonder whether I should do the same thing for glib/gobject
<federico>	haven't really measured it
<owen>	mclasen: A big problem is the g_return_if_fail() messages
<blah>__internal_alias now
<mclasen>	owen: we could a) shorten that suffix to __ia b) try to prettify the function name by stripping the suffix
<owen>	mclasen: I think b) would have to be done .. even __ia is too ugly . it's actually easy for g_return_if_fail(), though we'd have to add some more functions to handle g_assert(), etc.
<owen>	(more functions like g_return_failed_internal)
<mclasen>	although we have to be careful to not inadvertedly mangle honest function names
*	mclasen considers naming the function g_return_failed_no__internal_alias
<mclasen>	so, is there a way to hide dependencies from make ?
<owen>	mclasen: touch -t....
<ssp_>	maybe the script that generates gtkalias.h could check if it changed
<owen>	ssp_: I think the point is that a gtkalias.h change matters  iff. a real header the source file is including changes
<mclasen>	the problem is that gtkalias.h includes all headers, and all source files include gtkalias.h, so if any header file is changed...
<mclasen>	everything gets rebuild
<mclasen>	and the dependency is not really necessary, since any relevant header file change should also cause a gtk.symbols change
<owen>	mclasen: Another relatedproblem is that include files in the C files may rot...
<owen>	(include statements)
<mclasen>	because all get included via gtkalias.h now ?
<owen>	mclasen: Yeah.
<mclasen>	but gtkalias.h is empty if visibility is not supported, so gmorten will keep the includes from rotting...
<mclasen>	i was considering to try the gmorten "correct" approach to plt reduction in glib, but it is just a lot more work...
*	mclasen has to leave now, sorry. I'll put the logs on the web tomorrow

Meeting ended September 7, 17:56 EST (21:56 UTC)
