Meeting on irc.gnome.org:#gtk-devel
Meeting started May 24 17:02 EST (21:02 UTC)

In attendance:  

Matthias Clasen (mclasen), Owen Taylor (owen), Jonathan Blandford (jrb), 
Federico Mena Quintero (federico), Soeren Sandmann (ssp),  
Robert Ã–gren (roboros), John Ehresmann (jpe), 

<mclasen>	are we missing anybody ?
<owen>	mclasen: Looks reasonable. 
<mclasen>	ok: maybe we can just start then...
<mclasen>	...by announcing that we'll do a gtk+ 2.4.3 sometime this week to fix the button size fiasco a bit more.
<mclasen>	so if you have 2.4.x fixes lying around and missed 2.4.2, you can try to get them in 2.4.3
<mclasen>	I wonder if we should do something about the button size change in the combobox, which was caused by the default arrow size change in 2.4.2
<mclasen>	One option would be to just declare that "it looks better this way anyway"... 
<owen>	mclasen: What could we do? Isn't it the case that either the button will get larger or the arrow smaller since we had an arrow/focus-rect overlap?
<mclasen>	yes.
<mclasen>	since the button in the combobox is focusable.
<owen>	mclasen: Then I think we basically just have to leave the button bigger...
<mclasen>	yea
<mclasen>	does somebody else want to volunteer for doing the release this time ? 
<mclasen>	well, then I will probably do it around Friday.
<mclasen>	do we have other issues to discuss ? jrb, did we decide something wrt to the treeview drag/modality issue ?
<jrb>	mclasen: yes
<jrb>	mclasen: not being able to drag when modal is much worse than whatever that bug was
<mclasen>	is that a fix for 2.4.x ?
<jrb>	mclasen: federico was going to revert that change and put in a comment.  We'll find a real fix if the initial problem reoccurs
<jrb>	mclasen: I think so, yes
<mclasen>	good
<mclasen>	ok, what else ? owen, can you tell us a bit about the current state of pango ? 
Jun 07 17:20:41 *	mclasen didn't really track pango development in the last months...apart from seeing demos of strange glyph printouts occasionally...
<owen>	mclasen: I've added support for rotated text and a few other features, my plan is to cut off development at the gnome-2.8 API freeze and push out a 1.6 release
<owen>	mclasen: So for now to decouple it from the GTK+ release schedule since I really want the gnome-print/Pango integration in gnome-2.8
<mclasen>	would we need anything in gtk+ to support using rotated text, or could one just drop in pango 1.6 and have labels with vertical text work in gtk 2.4 ?
<mclasen>	s/vertical/rotated
<owen>	mclasen: It would at least require something like gtk_label_set_angle() or gtk_label_set_matrix()
<owen>	mclasen: But that's a few lines of code. Actually the main work item to get that working is getting rotatated drawing with Xft ... currently what I have in Pango is just FT2 (the Xft rendering mostly lives in GTK+, not Pango)
<owen>	mclasen: But yes,I think we should be able pretty trivially get rotated labels for GTK+-2.6
<mclasen>	not that I think rotated labels are overly useful, but they may certainly give some "aah" effect
<owen>	mclasen: They are pretty frequently requested, though I think people want more the ability to draw rotated text with GDK
<mclasen>	owen: regarding the gnome-print integration, do we have some (however vague) plans to move a print dialog to gtk, with some kind of backend separation like the new file selector ?
<owen>	mclasen: Yes. :-)
<owen>	mclasen: (that was in the guadec paper I sent you the link to, actually)
<owen>	mclasen: That's a post-Cairo item, however
<mclasen>	Good. I should read that, probably :-)
<federico>	maybe this should be on the list rather than the meeting, but we need a boolean-returning version of gtktreeview::row-activated
<federico>	but I can't think of a good name other than row-activated2
<mclasen>	activate-row ?
<federico>	mclasen: duh, good idea
<owen>	If we really think the confusion is worth the gain, the name should be somewhat explicit, like row-activated-check
<owen>	federico: Though I guess activate-row could emit row-activated out of the default handler.
<federico>	owen: it's what makes the tree view appear to swallow enters
<owen>	But I have a somewhat hard time seeing how this is going to make the world a better place.
<federico>	it's one less bug!
<mclasen>	didn't we hack around that in certain places ? 
<owen>	federico: We have the same problem as why we couldn't make ::activate a boolean return and get rid of gtk_entry_set_activates_default()
<federico>	mclasen: yeah, but I don't want those hacks to proliferate
<owen>	federico:well, different. But related. We can't tell if anybody is connecting to row-activated, so we can't pass through the return if there is no action done
<federico>	would it be ok to 1) make gtk_tree_view_row_activated() return boolean instead of void; 2) have it emit both signals, and return the result of the new signal?
<owen>	You can't compatibly change the return type of a signal
<owen>	Oh,you mean the function
<owen>	No, that doesn't work, because row-activated logically always returns TRUE
<federico>	owen: I mean, have the function emit both signals; the old one for compatibility, the new one for the return value
<federico>	owen: I'd then change gtkfilechooser and gtkfontsel to use the new signal
<owen>	I don't follow what the change would be, say, for the fontsel. 
<mclasen>	well, the fontsel uses the same hack as the fileselector to active the default when row_activated is emitted...
<owen>	mclasen: But the only thing that would avoid that is if GtkTreeView didn't trap enter, and making GtkTreeView not trap enter unless ther is a activate-row callback that returns true will cause current apps to break
<federico>	yeah, one should not have to special-case Enter for a widget
<mclasen>	an alternative would be gtk_tree_view_set_activates_default()
<owen>	mclasen: We'd have to have a mode setting for GtkTreeView
<mclasen>	thats what I was trying to propose: GtkTreeView::activates_default as a boolean property
<federico>	owen: what would break in current apps?  I'd say that for most of them it is perceived as a bug that you can't accept dialog boxes with Enter if a tree view is focused
<owen>	federico: Any app that has a dialog box and connects to ::row-activated
<owen>	federico: Which I think is relatively common. Hitting return is supposed to bring up the "edit profile" dialog, and instead closes the dialog
<federico>	what's the function to see if there are connections to a signal?
<mclasen>	I have to leave, see you next week...
<owen>	Has "pending" inthe name, but things like gtkmm are going to break that since you can't tell if the default handler does anything or not
<federico>	hmmmm
<federico>	so, an activates_default thing instead?
<owen>	It seems best to me
<owen>	OK, mclasen is gone, it's been an hour, probably should adjourn.
<owen>	Anything else?
<federico>	owen: the g_filename_to_uri() thing
<federico>	can that fix go in?
<owen>	federico: Did you ever do the analysis of what (if anything) in gnome saves encoded uris to disk?
<federico>	owen: I did a grep on the core desktop and nothing uses it other than for a temporary value
<owen>	federico: Let's go ahead and make the change in stable and HEAD. Needs to be prominently noted in the release announcement for the next GLib version. 
<owen>	federico: I'm not happy with the compatibility level, but I don't see an alternative.
<federico>	owen: cool, I'll make the change
<owen>	federico: Add something to the release notes section of the README
<federico>	owen: ok, will do

Meeting ended May 24 18:02 EST (22:02 UTC)
