Meeting on irc.gnome.org:#gtk-devel
Meeting started November 15 2004 16:05 EST (21:05 UTC)

In attendence: 

Owen Taylor (owen), Jonathan Blandford (jrb), Manish Singh (yosh), 
Matthias Clasen (matthias), Tor Lillqvist (tml), Robert Ögren (roboros),
Anders Carlsson (andersca), Robert Ögren (roboros), John Ehresman (jpe),
Ray Strode (halfline)


<mclasen>	so, what are the issues for today ?
<mclasen>	I would like to quickly discusse the rsvg pixbuf loader problem that occurred with the threadsafety fixes in gdk-pixbuf
<mclasen>	since I have the feeling that there may be a fundamental problem there...
<mclasen>	the issue (as far as I understand) was that librsvg wants to use threads
<mclasen>	but since it uses pango, the loader has to be marked threadunsafe
<mclasen>	consequently, gdk-pixbuf locks around all calls into the loader
<owen>	Hmm. grepping for 'thread' in the librsvg returns empty
<mclasen>	it uses gnome-vfs
<owen>	mclasen: Ah. But what's the problem? reentrancy?
<mclasen>	I thought the problem is if the app itself is not threaded (ie g_threads_init() hasn't been called), the G_LOCK() in gdk_pixbuf is a no-op, but then the module initializes gnome-vfs, which initializes the thread system
<mclasen>	so the G_UNLOCK isn't a noop anymore...
<mclasen>	but I could be wrong
<owen>	That sounds plausible. ugh.
<mclasen>	one solution would be to add another flag, GDK_PIXBUF_FORMAT_NEEDS_THREADS
<owen>	mclasen: You could easily work around that ... keep a local variable when you lock.
<mclasen>	that would be better
<owen>	I don't think you can add the flag ... gdk-pixbuf doesn't link to gthread so can't call g_thread_init()
<jrb>	is the svg loader making gnome_vfs calls??
<mclasen>	I'll try the local flag approach
<mclasen>	It seems to be, in rsvg-shapes.c
<mclasen>	talking about loadable modules, owen and I moved the pixbuf theme engine into gtk today
<mclasen>	so that gtk-engines is now officially just "engines we don't care about"
<andersca>	cool
<vektor>	So I can file bugs about the pixbuf theme engine against GTK+? :)
<mclasen>	sure
<vektor>	W00t.
<mclasen>	no guarantee they get fixed any faster though...
<owen>	vektor: if they are "produces ugly results" expect no traction. If they are "forgets to check for a NULL detail" hopefully we can get them fixed quickly
<vektor>	I was specifically thinking of performance issues with that engine.
<owen>	vektor: What sort of perforance issues? It should be pretty good performing if the theme doesn't do something stupid
<owen>	Something stupid is basically triggering the general image scaling case
<vektor>	owen: I'm pretty sure the "big button is slow" example was from the pixbuf theme engine.
<vektor>	Prelight being slow for buttons, basically.
<owen>	vektor: It's certainly possible to get the pixbuf engine to be slow. But it's designed to be fast.
<owen>	when it's easy to be fast
<owen>	Hey jpe
<vektor>	Sure, but you can say that about anything. :)  I meant that specifically it seems like rendering prelighting is visibly slower with pixbuf-engine based themes, and that this is noticable in applications.  I don't have hard numbers so it's a bit silly to discuss it now.  I'll file a bug.
<jpe>	hello
<owen>	vektor: Sure, sounds good. It may be a theme *file* bug rather a theme engine bug, but hard to say without knowing the theme and circumstances
<vektor>	Sync time adjustment is 0.0392 msecs.
<vektor>	   2400 reps @   2.3670 msec (   422.0/sec): ShmPutImage 500x500 square
<vektor>	Sorry.
<mclasen>	I would like to ask again what the most important issues on the 2.6 API freeze milestone are...otherwise I will just continue to fix whatever is important/interesting to me in the next two weeks. The next gtk release in ca. 2 weeks should probably be api frozen, considering that we want to do a 2.6 release in mid december
<vektor>	I'd like 155428, 154615, 154611 fixed.  They're all small and simple.
<mclasen>	did we agree on what lower value to use for the clipboard timeout ? one minute ?
<vektor>	owen had said that he was OK with 30 seconds.  I prefer 5 seconds, of course.
<vektor>	Either of those is much better than 5 minutes until we can get a better consensus on the whole issue, I think.
<mclasen>	for the bug about the cell background color, I wonder what the intended semantics of the GtkCellrendererText::background property are...
<mclasen>	override background color only in normal mode ?
<vektor>	I agree it's not obvious, it's a pretty broken thing to do.  However, I think a policy that selection overrides any colours unless you specifically override the selction colours on the whole tree makes sense.
<vektor>	Since you're guarenteed to have the selection foreground and background be well contrasted.
<mclasen>	jrb: I agree that it only makes sense to use background and foreground together. jrb, what was the idea behind background ?
<jrb>	mclasen: parity w/ GtkTextView
<jrb>	mclasen: it used to draw a colored rectangle back there, too
<mclasen>	jrb: what about the interaction with state ? should we use the theme colors for selected cells, even if an explicit background/foreground is set ?
<jrb>	I think selection should probably override that 
<mclasen>	ok, do we have more things to discuss ? 
<mclasen>	owen: any update on pango ?
<owen>	mclasen: No
<jrb>	mclasen: Eugenia is going to plug the widget gallery next time we do a GTK+ release
<jrb>	mclasen: so maybe we should spend 10 min. or so making sure it looks good
<mclasen>	nice. I'm trying to get the docs a bit more complete for 2.6 currently...
<mclasen>	we're still missing long introductions for quite a few widgets (some new ones as well)
<mclasen>	and generally, adding some more high-level/overview type things would be nice
<jrb>	mclasen: yeah
<mclasen>	but I think the widget gallery looks pretty good currently. Did we add the complex dialogs yet ?
<jrb>	mclasen: I was just about to suggest that.  We prolly need to change the shooter to handle dialogs better
<jrb>	mclasen: I wonder if we should organize the widgets in a non-alphabetical way
<mclasen>	I didn't notice they were alphabetical...
<jrb>	mclasen: I think they are
Nov 15 16:55:50 *	jrb looks again
<jrb>	mclasen: they're mostly alphabetical
<mclasen>	well, image is wrong
<jrb>	mclasen: maybe we should organize it the way the overall docs are:
<mclasen>	one thing we should figure out is why the footer goes fubar on initial loading
<jrb>	Windows/Display/Buttons and Toggles...
<mclasen>	would have to try it, not sure if it would be better/worse/different
<jrb>	mclasen: surely it's different... (-;
<mclasen>	I have to leave now. Quick final question: is this time better for the Europeans ? Should we keep it for next week ?
<tml>	mclasen: yup, this is fine
<mclasen>	good, lets keep it then.
<andersca>	yeah
<mclasen>	bye
<roboros>	bye
<tml>	ciao


Meeting ended November 15, 17:04 EST (22:04 UTC)
