Meeting on irc.gnome.org:#gtk-devel
Meeting started March 15 2004 17:09 EST (22:09 UTC)

In attendance:

 Jonathan Blandford (jrb), Anders Carlson (andersca), 
 Matthias Clasen (maclas), Tim Janik (rambokid), Tor Lillqvist (tml), 
 Mark McLoughlin (markmc), Federico Mena Quintero (federico), 
 Soeren Sandmann (ssp), Manish Singh (yosh), Owen Taylor (owen)

Mar 15 17:09:33 <owen>	OK, status is that GtkFileChooser is probably still a little rocky, but seems to be working a lot better
Mar 15 17:09:35 <federico>	let's all buy jrb a big present
Mar 15 17:10:12 <owen>	Everything else is, to my knowledge, basically ready to go
Mar 15 17:10:17 <owen>	federico: Some sleep?
Mar 15 17:10:19 *	jrb would settle for a nice mug of coffee
Mar 15 17:10:49 *	maclas goes for a mug of coffee 
Mar 15 17:10:50 <yosh>	fyi, I'm moving gtk.org to a new machine, probably tonight or tomorrow
Mar 15 17:11:04 <yosh>	but you shouldn't notice anything beyond a changed ssh host key
Mar 15 17:11:26 <owen>	yosh: Hmm. OK. Timing collision :-)
Mar 15 17:11:50 <jrb>	owen: so, one thing that maclas pointed out to me what I didn't think of before, is that I had to put in the no_pop_down hack in order to prevent selecting a row from immediately popping up the new options
Mar 15 17:12:03 <yosh>	owen: is the release going to happen today or tomorrow?
Mar 15 17:12:35 <owen>	yosh: I'm guessing it's going to be tomorrow afternoon judging how long it will take for me to finish wirting up release documentaiton
Mar 15 17:13:08 <jrb>	owen: that is pretty inconvenient for anyone using the custom entrycompletion stuff; can we change that behavior in a stable release?
Mar 15 17:13:40 <maclas>	owen: the candidate fix would be to block the ::changed handler during the emission of ::match-selected
Mar 15 17:13:43 <yosh>	owen: is anyone else but you going to be involved with mucking with files on the server?
Mar 15 17:13:45 <owen>	yosh: I can push it off a little bit if necessary to make sure that thenew machine has a bit of time to settle before we announce the release
Mar 15 17:14:31 <owen>	yosh: No, I'm the only guy who regularly does GTK+ web/ftp stuff
Mar 15 17:14:35 <owen>	Hey rambaby
Mar 15 17:14:38 <rambaby>	hey
Mar 15 17:14:57 <yosh>	ok, then we should be able to coordinate it without much trouble I think
Mar 15 17:16:12 <owen>	yosh: My basic concern is that switching to a new machine usually reveals something unexpected... anyways just keep me posted on what you are doing when and how it goes
Mar 15 17:16:17 *	federico is away: I'm busy
Mar 15 17:16:28 <owen>	jrb: OK, I'm not sure I undersand this problem
Mar 15 17:16:36 *	federico is back (gone 00:00:01)
Mar 15 17:16:47 <yosh>	owen: well, all the gtk stuff will be prepped tonight, except for possibly mail
Mar 15 17:16:58 <federico>	argh
Mar 15 17:17:00 <yosh>	owen: but the dns won't change till tomorrow
Mar 15 17:17:38 <maclas>	owen: if you modify the entry content's from your ::match-selected handler, you're triggering the ::changed signal from the entry, which causes the list to pop up again...
Mar 15 17:17:40 <yosh>	so if you could check it out tonight/tomorrow morning that should work
Mar 15 17:18:03 <owen>	yosh: Are you going to sync over contents immediately when changing the DNS, or is there some "don't touch anything or it will be lost" period?
Mar 15 17:18:26 <jrb>	owen: comment out the return on line 325: if (chooser_entry->no_pop_down) return FALSE
Mar 15 17:18:38 <yosh>	owen: there will be a 5 min window of don't touch anything, for the sync to actually happen
Mar 15 17:18:46 <yosh>	when dns changes
Mar 15 17:18:58 <owen>	jrb: Are you and maclas talking about the same issue, or different ones?
Mar 15 17:19:02 <yosh>	but the tree will be prepped tonight, so all it will be is a data sync
Mar 15 17:19:12 <jrb>	owen: same
Mar 15 17:19:16 <maclas>	owen: same
Mar 15 17:19:39 <owen>	maclas: First should hte list be popping up at all if the only completion is an exact match? I guess we don't have an API to distinguish exact matches :-(
Mar 15 17:20:10 <rambaby>	yosh: you're switching wilber over to the new advogato machine?
Mar 15 17:20:20 <yosh>	yep
Mar 15 17:20:40 <owen>	yosh: OK, Im not sure what you mean by "if you could check it out tonight/tomorrow morning that should work"
Mar 15 17:20:55 *	rambaby urg, hope my dns scripts don't break while i'm away from home
Mar 15 17:20:58 <owen>	yosh: But when I get close to getting ready to want to release, I'll get back into touch you and we'll sort things out
Mar 15 17:21:02 <yosh>	owen: I'll setup beta.gtk.org with a snapshot of the tree. give it a once over
Mar 15 17:21:51 <rambaby>	yosh: is there any chance we can delay that by say a wekk or so?
Mar 15 17:23:39 <owen>	maclas: So, basically what you anted to do was to move the           g_signal_handler_block (completion->priv->entry,
Mar 15 17:23:39 <owen>	                                  completion->priv->changed_id);
Mar 15 17:23:47 <owen>	maclas: around the signal emission as well?
Mar 15 17:24:22 <yosh>	rambaby: eh, it's basically blocking the new gimp website from going live
Mar 15 17:24:45 <maclas>	owen: yes. although from looking at gtkentry.c, it blocks the changed handler inside gtk_entry_set_text(), so set_text() won't ever trigger the popup, only insert_text()
Mar 15 17:25:11 <rambaby>	yosh: sure, and i wanted to see this for a long time. but i'd rather not have potential problems collapse with the 2.4.0 gtk release
Mar 15 17:25:21 <owen>	maclas: Ugh!
Mar 15 17:25:33 <rambaby>	collide i mean ;)
Mar 15 17:25:40 <yosh>	I doubt that will happen. and it's not like the old machine is going to be deconfigured, so it can be switched back in emergency
Mar 15 17:29:09 <maclas>	owen: Are you ok with moving the handler_block(), or should we just document that ::match-selected handlers should use set_text(), not insert_text(), to modify the entry ?
Mar 15 17:29:42 <owen>	maclas: Let's move the handler_block ... the fact that set_text is differnet than insert_text is a little odd, and I definitely would prefer not to recommend relying on that
Mar 15 17:30:11 <maclas>	owen: ok, I'll do that after the meeting
Mar 15 17:30:27 <owen>	http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=69616 is probably relevant to how that should be done right
Mar 15 17:31:24 <owen>	OK, any other issues?
Mar 15 17:32:40 <maclas>	not an issue really, but I'm not sure if the api docs are in good shape, or if we're missing some new symbols from gtk-sections.txt; I wanted to give them a quick look tonight
Mar 15 17:33:12 <owen>	maclas: For some reason gtk-sections.txt is complaining about msising all the class structures. I'm not sure what changed that caused that
Mar 15 17:33:43 <maclas>	owen: well, they *are* missing
Mar 15 17:34:26 <owen>	maclas: I'd really wish I had some time to spend on updating the docs to describe 2.4 changes, fix the building section to be reasonably accurate, etc. But I don't think that's going to happen
Mar 15 17:34:49 <owen>	maclas: One thing I do want to do is put a symlink on widget so http://developer.gnome.org/doc/API/2.4/gtk/ goes to the right place
Mar 15 17:35:29 <jrb>	the tutorial on gtk.org is looking pretty dated
Mar 15 17:36:16 <maclas>	owen: yes, I don't want to do any time-consuming updates, just a quick check to see if there are missing symbols, markup typos, etc
Mar 15 17:36:32 <maclas>	owen: do I still have time to do that tonight ?
Mar 15 17:37:08 <owen>	maclas: My guess is that I'm not going to start distchecking until tomorrow
Mar 15 17:37:43 <owen>	maclas: I don't have a ton of staying power tonight after working all weekend, and the release announcements are going to take a while
Mar 15 17:38:12 <maclas>	understandable...
Mar 15 17:38:19 *	jrb would like to see updates to the docs of GtkEntryCompletion
Mar 15 17:38:23 <owen>	(http://people.redhat.com/~otaylor/tmp/glib-2.4-announce is the glib draft, but still working on the pango/gtk+ and the "all libraries" announcements. I'll mail out pointers when I'm doine)
Mar 15 17:38:50 <maclas>	jrb: I've added a bit yesterday, do you still want more?
Mar 15 17:38:55 <andersca>	Thanks to all the GLib 2.2 contributors, including:
Mar 15 17:39:00 <andersca>	owen: don't forget to change that to a 2.4 :)
Mar 15 17:39:24 <owen>	andersca: Fixed
Mar 15 17:39:49 <jrb>	maclas: oh.  I didn't notice; lemme look.
Mar 15 17:40:59 <owen>	OK, let see I think what needs fixing on the web site will be:
Mar 15 17:41:38 <owen>	 the Download section and putting up the release announcement in News. Anything else?
Mar 15 17:42:26 <owen>	I gues plan/ could use a quick update so that 2.4 is not still listed as in progress
Mar 15 17:42:54 <maclas>	owen: if you give Tim-Philipp a proper ü, you might want to give ssp his umlaut as well...
Mar 15 17:43:21 <owen>	maclas: You mean his slash? 
Mar 15 17:43:36 <maclas>	owen: yes, instead of oe
Mar 15 17:43:53 <andersca>	ø
Mar 15 17:44:03 <jrb>	ides of march...
Mar 15 17:44:11 *	maclas didn't know how to type ø
Mar 15 17:44:45 <owen>	We really should start asking people to give their names both transliterated and in the native script, so that release announcements look cooler :-)
Mar 15 17:44:47 <ssp>	owen: I think Søren Boll Overgaard would like a slash too, then
Mar 15 17:44:48 <andersca>	maclas: alt-gr+o
Mar 15 17:45:07 <maclas>	øøøøøøøøøøø !!
Mar 15 17:45:30 <ssp>	ctrl-shift f8
Mar 15 17:46:21 <federico>	aargh, create_folder doesn't use the info cache in gtkfilesystemunix
Mar 15 17:46:31 <owen>	ssp: He'd probably like Overgaard too. I wonder how that got dropped
Mar 15 17:46:32 *	kris gets all kinds of weird symbols
Mar 15 17:46:37 *	kris blames his non-utf8 terminal.
Mar 15 17:47:15 <ssp>	owen: If you'd like, I can send you a patch for plan/ 
Mar 15 17:47:57 <owen>	ssp: Do Søren Boll Overgaard,Henning Nielsen Lund sort under O/L or B/N ?
Mar 15 17:48:15 <ssp>	owen: O/L
Mar 15 17:48:25 <maclas>	owen: speaking about plan/, we may want to add bugzilla queries to plan/2.6 in the same way as we did for the willfix list. Thats not urgent, of course...
Mar 15 17:48:42 *	jrb laments the lack of cool characters in his name
Mar 15 17:48:50 <owen>	ssp: OK, that was my guess, but I thought I'd check.
Mar 15 17:48:55 <andersca>	just call yourself Jønathan
Mar 15 17:48:56 <andersca>	or Jönathan
Mar 15 17:49:09 <ssp>	owen: are you sure he is "Henning Nielsen Lund"?  "Henning Lund Nielsen" sounds a lot more likely?
Mar 15 17:49:22 <jrb>	Ĵonathan
Mar 15 17:50:34 <owen>	ssp: http://lists.gnome.org/archives/gtk-devel-list/2004-March/msg00125.html
Mar 15 17:51:00 <ssp>	OK
Mar 15 17:51:39 <owen>	(I guess that shows that the bar for getting listed as a contributor is fairly low :-)
Mar 15 17:52:13 <maclas>	a one-character contributor...
Mar 15 17:52:23 <owen>	maclas: 2
Mar 15 17:52:28 <owen>	:-)
Mar 15 17:53:13 <maclas>	oh, I thought he only pointed out the missing trailing slash.
Mar 15 17:54:17 <owen>	ssp: Basiclaly, you can commit anything you want to plan/ and it will be good :-)
Mar 15 17:56:22 <owen>	Hmm, does anybody actually know muppet's name? It's generally been against my policy to credit anybody just by IRC nickname
Mar 15 17:56:46 <kris>	you can end the contributors list with like
Mar 15 17:56:48 <kris>	"and that muppet from irc"
Mar 15 17:56:49 <kris>	(:
Mar 15 17:56:59 <yosh>	scott something or the other
Mar 15 17:57:02 <yosh>	ask him
Mar 15 17:57:18 <maclas>	www.asofyet.org
Mar 15 17:57:41 <owen>	yosh: if I see him, I will
Mar 15 17:57:53 <maclas>	I googled for that piece of information once
Mar 15 17:57:57 <yosh>	ah, Scott Arrington
Mar 15 17:58:13 <yosh>	http://www.asofyet.org/muppet/
Mar 15 17:58:30 <ssp>	owen: ok, I'll do that tonight then. So for a short while we will see something as rare as outdated reality compared to a website
Mar 15 18:01:13 <owen>	OK, anything ele?
Mar 15 18:02:14 <maclas>	owen: when is 2.4.1 due ?
Mar 15 18:02:25 <tml>	hi, sorry for being late
Mar 15 18:03:21 <owen>	maclas: I think we'll try for a week
Mar 15 18:03:26 <owen>	Hey tml
Mar 15 18:04:05 <maclas>	whats the "topic" for 2.4.1 ? 
Mar 15 18:04:16 <tml>	is it too late for a minor change to glib's configure.in? Otherwise HAVE_INT64_AND_I64 don't get defined with gcc, breaking 64-bit int g_printf... Only just noticed.
Mar 15 18:04:53 <owen>	tml: You didn't miss much, really. I'm being slow at writing the release announcements, will probably distcheck tomorrow, the website and docs contain lots of out of date stuff, not much we can do about that. That's about all :-)
Mar 15 18:05:20 <owen>	tml: If you could run it by me, I'd appreciate it, but it shoudl be fine to make a change
Mar 15 18:05:31 <tml>	owen: OK
Mar 15 18:08:22 <owen>	One final thing ... I'll send the final release announcements around for people to check, but I wanted to run the "Team" and "Special Thanks" listings by people here
Mar 15 18:08:26 <owen>	For glib, I have 
Mar 15 18:09:00 <owen>	Team:Matthias Clasen, Tim Janik, Noah Levitt, Tor Lillqvist, Manish Singh, Owen Taylor, and Sebastian Wilhelmi
Mar 15 18:09:26 <owen>	Special Thanks: Jonathan Blandford, Hans Breuer and J Ali Harlow, George Lebl
Mar 15 18:09:33 <owen>	For GTK+, I was thinking:
Mar 15 18:11:26 <owen>	[ sorry for the suspense here, badly prepared ]
Mar 15 18:12:09 <jrb>	[ drum roll ]
Mar 15 18:12:22 <owen>	Team: Jonathan Blandford, Matthias Clasen, Tim Janik, Tor Lillqvist, Federico \Mena Quintero, Kristian Rietveld, Soeren Sandmann, Owen Taylor
Mar 15 18:12:22 <owen>	                                                                               
Mar 15 18:12:22 <owen>	Special thanks to: Morten Welinder, Hans Breuer, J Ali Harlow, Dov Grobgeld
Mar 15 18:13:00 <owen>	This stuff is very abitrary, of course. but I don't really know how to make it not so.
Mar 15 18:13:41 <owen>	Anybody obvious I'm misisng for either? Anybody who should be categorized differently?
Mar 15 18:14:03 <ssp>	owen: I'd say jamesh and andersca should both be in the special thanks for gtk+
Mar 15 18:14:04 <federico>	other contributions go in plain "Thanks", right?
Mar 15 18:14:15 <kris>	maybe I should be categorized differently. but I dunno.
Mar 15 18:14:42 <owen>	kris: No, you don't get to get out of being inthe Team for 2.4 :-)
Mar 15 18:14:44 <maclas>	also markmc, maybe. he did one of our new widgets...
Mar 15 18:15:03 <owen>	ssp: Yeah, I should add Jamesh for Glib as well, the autogen stuff was pretty massive
Mar 15 18:15:07 <kris>	ok
Mar 15 18:15:13 <kris>	if you think I did enough useful stuff
Mar 15 18:15:22 <andersca>	ah, I did hack on the toolbar and the uimanager
Mar 15 18:15:24 *	andersca remembers now
Mar 15 18:15:33 <owen>	maclas: Ah, yes.
Mar 15 18:15:59 <owen>	Maybe alexl too, since the icon theme stuff is just his code stolen
Mar 15 18:16:00 <rambaby>	owen: i think yosh definitely belongs on the gtk team list
Mar 15 18:16:03 <maclas>	owen: jamesh did the original uimanager implementation
Mar 15 18:16:22 <federico>	michael/jody for pounding on the GtkAction/UIManager stuff?
Mar 15 18:16:44 <rambaby>	(there're lots of small fixes in gtk+/ChangeLog from him if you want justification)
Mar 15 18:16:46 <owen>	federico: Hmm. Not sure there ,but definely Marco
Mar 15 18:16:52 <ssp>	federico: if pounding counts, then marco also 
Mar 15 18:17:43 <maclas>	federico: yes, jody should be in "special thanks", imo. I had a couple of useful discussions regarding uimanager with him, and he provided patches
Mar 15 18:18:12 <rambaby>	yes, jody in special thanks for G_DEFINE:TYPE() ;)
Mar 15 18:18:32 <tml>	owen: I think maybe both Hans and I should be in the Special Thanks section for GTK, Hans did lots during the winter while I got active quite late
Mar 15 18:18:59 <maclas>	the "win twins"...
Mar 15 18:19:27 <rambaby>	owen: gtk special thanks also go to michael meeks
Mar 15 18:19:46 <owen>	tml: I could move Hans up to the team section for both if you want, he certainly dives in and fixes a lot of stuff
Mar 15 18:20:34 <tml>	owen: fine with me
Mar 15 18:20:35 <federico>	seth, for the file chooser design?
Mar 15 18:20:49 <owen>	federico: Good idea.
Mar 15 18:20:56 <owen>	This is getting like the oscars...
Mar 15 18:21:49 <owen>	rambaby: Are you thinking of of anything in particular for Meeks or just general bugfix submission?
Mar 15 18:22:44 <rambaby>	owen: i was thinking of define_type originally and looked, and there're a couple of bug patches and commits from him in the changelog
Mar 15 18:24:29 <owen>	Oh, hmmm, probably Semion Chichelnitsky for all the RTL widget patches
Mar 15 18:25:05 <owen>	Of course, the problem is that this shades off very gradually ...
Mar 15 18:25:23 <owen>	Counting straight appearances of names in NEWS, the top counts are:
Mar 15 18:25:25 <rambaby>	ok folks, badly need sleep and have to get up early. night.
Mar 15 18:25:28 ---	You are now known as |
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	     72 Matthias Clasen
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	     43 Owen Taylor
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	     37 Soeren Sandmann
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	     27 Federico Mena Quintero
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	     16 Jonathan Blandford
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	     12 Morten Welinder
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	     12 Kristian Rietveld
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      8 Marco Pesenti Gritti
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      8 Hans Breuer
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      8 Alexander Larsson
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      7 Mark McLoughlin
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      7 Christian Persch
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      6 Tor Lillqvist
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      6 Murray Cumming
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      6 Manish Singh
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      6 Damon Chaplin
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      5 Padraig O'Briain
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      5 Michael Natterer
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      5 Jody Goldberg
Mar 15 18:25:37 <|>	      5 Anders Carlsson
Mar 15 18:25:42 ---	You are now known as owen
Mar 15 18:26:27 <owen>	But that doesn't really say a lot - Tor gets few mentions because I always summarize * Win32 [Tor Lillqvist]  - asdf - asdf -asdf, etc..
Mar 15 18:26:52 <rambaby>	owen: after the special thanls section, you can make normal thanls section and relist everyone from the 2.3.x NEWS ;)
Mar 15 18:27:08 <owen>	rambaby: Yes, that's what I've done before and was planning to do now
Mar 15 18:27:09 <kris>	we used to summarize * GtkTreeView [Kris] too i think.
Mar 15 18:27:58 <rambaby>	owen: well, you have to draw the arbitrary line *somewhere*. so add a forgotten-about-someone disclaimer and be done with it.
Mar 15 18:28:11 <owen>	kris: Yeah. In those counts GtkTreeModelFilter gives you the same count as Henning Nielsen Lund's  gtk.org => gnu.org
Mar 15 18:28:13 <owen>	:-)
Mar 15 18:28:56 <owen>	rambaby: Indeed. 
Mar 15 18:29:42 <kris>	heh
Mar 15 18:31:04 <owen>	OK, thanks for the feedback folks. I think we're all done here. When I send out the drafts, if people could find as many of the 2.2's that should be 2.4's as possible, that woudl be appreciated.
Mar 15 18:32:25 ---	markmc is now known as mcsleep
Mar 15 18:33:48 <kris>	ok
Mar 15 18:33:55 *	kris goes for this 6 hours of sleep
Mar 15 18:34:07 <jrb>	night kris
Mar 15 18:34:11 <kris>	night.

Meeting ended Mar 01 18:34  (23:34 UTC)
