Meeting on in http://yarrr.gnome.org/wiki/index.php/Gtk/meeting-7-12-05
Meeting started July 12 2005 16:00 EDT

In attendence:

Federico Mena Quintero (FedericoMenaQuintero),
Jonathan Blandford (JonathanBlandford),
Luis Villa (LuisVilla),
Owen Taylor (otaylor),
Alexander Larsson (alex),
Matthias Clasen (mclasen),
Billy Biggs (vektor),
Maciej Katafiasz (mathrick),
Johan Dahlin (jdahlin),
Sebastian Bacher (seb128)

Agenda
------
* 2.8 status
 * Pango/Cairo update (otaylor)
 * GObject thread safety/atomic refcounting 
* 2.8 bug list

Summary
-------
* owen to release pango
* matthias to do another set of 2.7.x releases by the end of the week
* matthias to "test commit" atomic refcounting
* alex to file a "fuzzy expander" bug [DONE]

Log
---
15:29	FedericoMenaQuintero	dum de dum			
15:31	FedericoMenaQuintero	tra la la	(bkor)		
15:33	JonathanBlandford	Federico, use http://yarrr.gnome.org/wiki/Gtk/meeting-7-12-05			
15:34	JonathanBlandford	FedericoMenaQuintero: don't use the :8080 page			
15:34	FedericoMenaQuintero	am I here now?	(LuisVilla)		
15:34	JonathanBlandford	FedericoMenaQuintero: yes.			
15:36	LuisVilla	is agenda above or below?			
15:36	otaylor	I think the agenda above is supposed to be the right one			
15:37	*	jdahlin notes that yarrr looks pretty good			
15:38	LuisVilla	Oops.			
15:38	LuisVilla	should have used cancel there.			
15:38	mclasen	does bugzilla work for anybody else ?			
15:38	JonathanBlandford	mclasen: WORKSFORM			
15:40	LuisVilla	mclasen: broken here, and AFAICT the bugzilla user on window doesn't have permission to read the bugzilla.gnome.org httpd logs :/			
15:40	LuisVilla	jrb: you've tried a query?			
15:40	otaylor	Apparently show_bug.cgi works but bug_list.cgi doesn't			
15:40	alex	ugh. constantly reloading the wiki is pretty sucky. Why not use the comments for it?			
15:41	mclasen	so we probably won't discuss specific bugs again...			
15:41	otaylor	LuisVilla: You aren't in gnomeweb?			
15:41	LuisVilla	might be			
15:41	LuisVilla	I think I know what the problem is			
15:42	LuisVilla	though I have no idea what might have caused it			
15:42	LuisVilla	gimme a sec			
15:42	otaylor	LuisVilla: Nothing useufl in the logs anyways			
15:42	LuisVilla	OK, fixed			
15:42	LuisVilla	the permissions got changed somehow			
15:42	LuisVilla	which sort of scares me	(alex, JonathanBlandford)		
15:44	otaylor	LuisVilla: Quite likely someone typed 'cvs up' as bugzilla rather than runing the update script			
15:44	otaylor	Or at least, that used ot be the reason for that happening 4 years ago			
15:45	LuisVilla	I thought we fixed that			
15:45	LuisVilla	anyway			
15:45	LuisVilla	poking around the bug team for that			
15:45	FedericoMenaQuintero	do we need gdk_pixbuf_set_as_cairo_surface(pixbuf, cr) or something like that?			
15:45	LuisVilla	we have a guilty party			
15:45	otaylor	Federico: gdk_cairo_set_source_pixbuf()			
15:46	alex	otaylor: maybe FedericoMenaQuintero means to draw on a pixbuf			
15:47	otaylor	alex: Ah. That's harder ... really needs libpixman support for pixbuf formats			
15:47	otaylor	alex: It would presumably be gdk_cairo_create_for_pixbuf() if we implemented it			
15:49	mclasen	that would be very nice, we would finally have a drawing api for pixbufs	(otaylor, alex, JonathanBlandford)		
15:51	FedericoMenaQuintero	yeah			
15:52	otaylor	mclasen: Of course, cairo takes away a lot of the need to draw to a pixbuf			
15:53	otaylor	Check the green checkmark on this sentence if you have a green checkmark	(FedericoMenaQuintero, LuisVilla, otaylor, alex)		
15:54	otaylor	I actually wanted to write "Check the green checkmark on this sentence if you don't have a green checkmark", but that wouldn't work very well...			
15:55	vektor	Presumably I shouldn't have to keep hitting reload to see new messages, no?			
15:56	otaylor	vektor: No, you shouldn't. (The page should be obnoxiously reloading)			
15:56	otaylor	vektor: I wonder if that could be a proxy issue			
15:56	vektor	Seems to be failing for some reason then. :)			
15:56	mathrick	FWIW, I am behind proxy			
15:56	mathrick	rather poorly configured one, too			
15:57	JonathanBlandford	testing	(LuisVilla)		
15:57	mclasen	I don't have a green checkmark, but maybe we should st art the meeting by having jrb give us directions on where to report our feedback on yarrr			
15:58	mclasen	jrb ?			
15:58	mclasen	ah, you are JonathanBlandford here			
15:58	mclasen	does nick highlighting work here ?			
15:58	JonathanBlandford	http://yarrr.gnome.org/wiki/Yarrr/Feedback			
15:58	*	mathrick sez WikiLogins are not good nicks for chat			
15:59	JonathanBlandford	mathrick: agreed.			
16:00	mclasen	I hope that we have most people here now			
16:00	alex	LuisVilla: can you close or cancel the haiku comment?			
16:01	mclasen	do we have other agenda items in addition to the ones listed above ?			
16:01	JonathanBlandford	(it was a lovely haiku, BTW)			
16:01	jdahlin	mathrick: nah, irc nicks are just confusing			
16:01	jdahlin	mathrick: nah, irc nicks are just confusing			
16:01	mathrick	jdahlin: ButTheyDontTakeHalfTheScreen			
16:02	LuisVilla	hrm			
16:02	JonathanBlandford	mathrick: only authors can close comments			
16:03	JonathanBlandford	mathrick: so you need to close it now. (-;			
16:03	LuisVilla	I have a close button but can't seem to actually close it :)			
16:03	LuisVilla	oh			
16:03	mathrick	fuck			
16:03	LuisVilla	all authors need to agree to cancel it?			
16:03	otaylor	LuisVilla: You are crossed off. I think mathrick has to close it as well			
16:03	LuisVilla	interesting			
16:03	mclasen	if there are no other items, then we should maybe start with the status of Pango/Cairo			
16:03	mathrick	JonathanBlandford doesn't seem to tab-complete here			
16:03	otaylor	mathrick: case sensitive			
16:03	mathrick	otaylor: ah			
16:04	JonathanBlandford	mathrick: cancel!			
16:04	JonathanBlandford	kaboom			
16:04	mathrick	JonathanBlandford: done			
16:04	mclasen	otaylor: will you do a new Pango release soon ? 			
16:06	mathrick	JonathanBlandford: feedback page has gone blank, after several clashing revisions			
16:07	LuisVilla	reload			
16:07	mclasen	owen: what is the state of cairo ? can we expect another release soon ? I think there were some small api additions/changes, right ?			
16:07	otaylor	mclasen: Yes. It's gotten sort of hung up on cairo changes, but definitely by the end o fthe week			
16:08	otaylor	the plan is cairo-0.6.0 and pango-1.9.1 pretty much together			
16:08	otaylor	mclasen: There was the CAIRO_FORMAT_* vs. CAIRO_CONTENT_* incompatible API change in CVS recently			
16:08	mclasen	otaylor: so what are the main pango 1.10 blockers ? 			
16:08	otaylor	The Pango release will involve some (baiscally compatible) addiitons			
16:09	*	mclasen should check the "1.10 Freeze" milestone			
16:09	otaylor	mclasen: - Propagation of XSETTING options (what I'm working on now)			
16:09	otaylor	- The rotated font caching problem			
16:10	*	mclasen notices 1.10 Freeze is virtually empty...			
16:10	otaylor	Then there are various "1.8.2" blockers that I'm trying to get to ... bug fixes with patches I've been trying to get to for a while, and also FreeType-2.2 compat stuff			
16:10	mclasen	otaylor: did you look at the printing issues yet ?			
16:11	otaylor	mclasen: No, I haven't			
16:12	otaylor	it's probably something simple... there have been basically no changes in the code paths involved there, so something probably got accidentally messed up			
16:13	mclasen	ok, maybe me or J5 can look at it			
16:14	otaylor	mclasen: It's probably just a few minutes for me, if I can find the time to look at it. But if you want to take a look, feel free.			
16:14	mclasen	otaylor: ok			
16:15	mclasen	so, the next topic is the gobject thread safety/atomic refcounting bugs			
16:16	mclasen	many people have expressed strong interest in getting at least the atomic refcounting patch in 2.8			
16:16	mclasen	and we have a new patch from wim, which incorporates the result of the timj<->wimt discussion at guadec			
16:17	mclasen	but rambokid told me today that he is too busy with university to look at the patches for at least two more weeks			
16:17	alex	can anyone else do it?			
16:17	mathrick	mclasen: s/wimt/wtay/			
16:18	mclasen	everybody else can look at the patches and comment on them, sure			
16:18	alex	it would be very nice to have, more and more gnome apps are starting to interact with threads			
16:18	mclasen	but it fear that rambokid will not be happy if we commit them without his explicit approval			
16:19	alex	this is bug 166020 btw			
16:20	mclasen	it would be nice if we could embed a bug list in the wiki, next to the <yarrr>			
16:20	JonathanBlandford	mclasen: yeah. That would be cool.			
16:20	LuisVilla	federico and I talked about that a bit			
16:21	LuisVilla	last night			
16:21	LuisVilla	I'd like to be able to do some more wiki-ish things with bugzilla			
16:21	*	mclasen noticed he shot himself in the foot by distracting the discussion from gobject thread safety to bugzilla/wiki integration	(LuisVilla)		
16:23	LuisVilla	(even more sidetrack: I was trying to 'check' mclasen's last comment, but the icon changed to a X- did I just check him or cross him?)			
16:23	alex	LuisVilla: checked, click the cross to remove your check			
16:24	mclasen	would it be workable to commit the atomic refcounting changes now, to get them tested in 2.7.x, and ask timj to review them before 2.8 final ?	(JonathanBlandford)		
16:24	alex	mclasen: he does seem to agree that we want it			
16:25	alex	mclasen: and it feels safer to do that early and revert later than the other way around			
16:26	mclasen	ok, lets try that route			
16:26	JonathanBlandford	mclasen: as an aside, your color changes never made it in, right?			
16:26	mclasen	JonathanBlandford: no, instead I got cursor changes in			
16:26	mclasen	JonathanBlandford: which seemed less controversial			
16:26	JonathanBlandford	mclasen: ah, okay			
16:26	JonathanBlandford	mclasen: yeah.			
16:26	JonathanBlandford	though less useful			
16:27	alex	what color changes?			
16:27	mclasen	hey, they are maybe useless, but now you can switch to cool cursor themes !			
16:27	mclasen	alex: symbolic colors, recolorable themes, color tab in appearance capplet...			
16:27	mathrick	mclasen: wasn't that possible before?			
16:28	mclasen	mathrick: not without restart/re-login			
16:28	mclasen	mathrick: we didn't have an xsetting for cursor theme			
16:28	mclasen	just an envvar			
16:28	JonathanBlandford	mclasen: didn't mean to criticize -- both are pretty cool.			
16:28	mathrick	mclasen: ah, and now it's instant effect?			
16:28	mathrick	00t			
16:28	mathrick	w00t even			
16:29	mathrick	I hate the text-eating latency of yarrr			
16:30	mclasen	ok, so coming back to the general 2.8 status topic			
16:30	LuisVilla	(I added a bug query link to the agenda, if you still want that, mclasen)			
16:30	mclasen	LuisVilla: thats not quite what I imagined. More like an embedded bug list			
16:31	mclasen	so that I can read bug summaries without clicking away from the discussion			
16:31	LuisVilla	oh, yeah			
16:31	LuisVilla	I didn't mean that it fulfilled that role			
16:31	mclasen	310133 is on that list, btw			
16:31	LuisVilla	just that well before the meeting started you'd said you were trying to get a bug list, when bugzilla was broken			
16:32	mclasen	ah, ok			
16:32	mclasen	I committed to small GOption api additions today, and I don't have any other api affecting bugs planned for 2.8 anymore			
16:32	LuisVilla	<- so embarassed he closed his browser tab			
16:33	mclasen	So I think the next 2.7.x releases will be "officially" api frozen, unless somebody comes up with an urgent api issue today...			
16:34	mclasen	owen: did you get a chance to look at plug/socket/win32 ?			
16:34	mclasen	err, otaylor 			
16:36	otaylor	mclasen: I'm about halfway through			
16:36	otaylor	It's a 60 page patch, printed out			
16:36	alex	woa!	(LuisVilla)		
16:37	otaylor	alex: Well, it's a good chunk code reorg, but still not easy to review			
16:37	alex	did anyone report a bug about the expanded treeview expander being fuzzy?			
16:38	mclasen	it has been discussed recently			
16:38	otaylor	alex: It's not in all themes			
16:38	mclasen	probably depends on the expander size			
16:38	otaylor	alex: But I don't think there is a bug report on it filed			
16:38	alex	otaylor: should i file one?			
16:39	mclasen	alex: yes			
16:42	mclasen	today I added a demo for iconview editing/dnd to gtk-demo.			
16:42	mclasen	if anybody else has a nice demo for a new 2.8 (or undemoed 2.6) feature, please add them			
16:43	mclasen	I think it would be nice to have all important new features demoed in gtk-demo 			
16:43	FedericoMenaQuintero	hmm, why is 166601 milestoned for 2.8?			
16:44	mathrick	mclasen: it'd be also good to review gtk examples, the code there is getting very bitrotten, and distros still ship it			
16:45	mclasen	FedericoMenaQuintero: I believe I put it there because it had a patch which I wanted to not forget			
16:45	mclasen	FedericoMenaQuintero: but now the patch is committed, and the issue is still there			
16:45	mclasen	FedericoMenaQuintero: so the bug should probably go back to "Medium Fix"			
16:46	mclasen	mathrick: do you think about the tutorial ?			
16:46	JonathanBlandford	GNOME bug 166601			
16:46	mathrick	mclasen: probably, I think that's where the code is scrapped from			
16:46	mclasen	mathrick: ah, yes, those examples			
16:47	mclasen	mathrick: I think the only hope for an uptodate tutorial 			
16:47	mclasen	is to integrate it into the api docs, as we did for the gobject tutorial			
16:48	mclasen	we have basically ignored the tutorial since 2.0, since tony gale kind of owns it			
16:48	mathrick	mclasen: yes, but at least #define GTK_ENABLE_BROKEN code should die :\			
16:50	mclasen	yes, but its a lot of work to clean up/update the tutorial			
16:50	mclasen	anything else to discuss ? (I'm heading out in 5 minutes)			
16:52	mclasen	federico: did you look further into overwrite confirmation ?			
16:52	mclasen	err, FedericoMenaQuintero 			
16:53	*	alex just filed bug 310173			
16:54	alex	(bug 310172 is for the fuzzy expander)			
16:55	LuisVilla	one last thing			
16:55	LuisVilla	2.8 for 2.12			
16:55	alex	ah, the big question...			
16:55	mclasen	LuisVilla: has that been agreed on now ?			
16:55	LuisVilla	I'm fairly satisfied ATM; I'm using it and not seeing anything that is particularly scary and/or that isn't getting fixed quickly			
12:56	LuisVilla	no, it hasn't, but I can presumably push it that way			
12:56	seb128	same here			
12:56	alex	It seems that we have decided to at least not depend on gtk 2.8 only features atm			
12:56	LuisVilla	I assume no one on the gtk team objects?			
12:56	otaylor	LuisVilla: Nothing that I haven't said before			
12:56	mclasen	LuisVilla: we (at least I) are working hard on making that possible, so no			
12:56	JonathanBlandford	LuisVilla: I've got conditional dependencies in evince on 2.8, but I'd much rather ship with 2.8			
12:57	seb128	(some) distros would like to get an officiel rt call to know what to package :)			
12:57	LuisVilla	heh			
12:57	LuisVilla	that distro is young and hasn't learn to take decisions by the balls yet ;)			
12:57	mclasen	release team seems barely existant at this point...			
12:57	seb128	ah ah			
12:58	LuisVilla	mclasen: different discussion, but yeah, it does seem fairly poor form for a team whose lead is AWOL to be criticizing the gtk team :/			
12:58	otaylor	seb128: Once GTK+-2.8 is out, the official GTK+ position will be that you should package GTK+-2.8; we won't continue a GTK+-2.6 maintainence branch past then			
12:58	mclasen	I plan to do a final 2.6.x release at the same time I do 2.8.0, though			
12:59	seb128	otaylor: yeah, but if we start using 2.7 now and for whatever reason the rt decide that GNOME 2.12 ships with 2.6.n we are screwed since downgrading is not trivial for a distro			
12:59	*	mclasen never new the release team had a lead...			
13:00	LuisVilla	jeff			
13:00	LuisVilla	no further comment			
13:00	LuisVilla	:)			
13:00	seb128	ah ah			
13:00	LuisVilla	but yeah, the rest of the team has not exactly picked up the pieces			
13:00	LuisVilla	anywya			
13:00	LuisVilla	different discussion			
13:01	mclasen	anyway, lets close this meeting before we open that discussion	(alex, JonathanBlandford)		
13:01	*	mclasen wanders away			
13:01	LuisVilla	night			
13:01	mclasen	night			
13:02	seb128	'night			
13:04	JonathanBlandford	(as a reminder, comments go here: http://yarrr.gnome.org/wiki/Yarrr/Feedback )			

Meeting ended around 17:00


