16:00:45]  <mclasen>  hey, its time
[16:02:26]  <mclasen> I put some agenda items in the announcement, but I don't actually have much to say about the first one
[16:03:55]  <mclasen> so maybe we can try to discuss the scope and schedule of GTK+ 2.10
[16:06:11]  ***  johannes has joined chat #gtk-devel.
[16:06:57]  ***  johannes has left chat #gtk-devel.
[16:07:21]  <mclasen> the way I see it, there are 4 or 5 major items we should try to get into 2.10
[16:07:27]  <mclasen> gtkassistant - almost done
[16:07:28]  <mclasen> recent files - almost done
[16:07:28]  <mclasen> introspection - some more work needed
[16:07:28]  <mclasen> printing     - needs a lot more work
[16:07:28]  <mclasen> directfb backend ?
[16:07:43]  ***  johannes has joined chat #gtk-devel.
[16:09:52]  <kris> yo
[16:09:56]  <kris> sorry for being late
[16:10:14]  <kris> i guess we  can get the async filechooser in 2.10 too
[16:10:44]  <mclasen> oh, sure
[16:11:28]  <mclasen> I have started looking at the things that have accumulated on the 2.10 milestones
[16:11:29]  ***  jrb has joined chat #gtk-devel.
[16:11:45]  <mclasen> and I hope to soon get to the assistant and recent files bugs
[16:12:14]  <kris> i hope to get to the treeview bugs soon
[16:12:45]  <kris> but i am in the middle of exams and moving to another place, so ...
[16:13:40]  <mclasen> did federico look at the async branch ?
[16:13:57]  <kris> not yet
[16:14:02]  <kris> he's going to real soon now
[16:17:17]  <mitch> before i forget: i have a couple of display-close fixes on my disk that i will file or just commit if simple enough
[16:17:20]  <mitch> so that will work in 2.10
[16:17:44]  <mclasen> thats nice. Is there more in terms of maemo patches in the queue ?
[16:18:02]  <mclasen> Or did you get all the important things in ?
[16:18:25]  <mitch> there is lots of stuff left, we're still factoring them out
[16:18:29]  <mitch> mostly minor stuff tho
[16:18:43]  <mitch> kris identified some nice treeview additions
[16:18:47]  <kris> yeah
[16:20:00]  <mitch> there is also support for input menthods that use a virtual keyboard
[16:20:11]  <mitch> they need to be triggered differently than others
[16:20:12]  ***  neo has joined chat #gtk-devel.
[16:20:14]  <mclasen> I saw that one
[16:20:19]  <mitch> will file a patch for that too, this oir next week
[16:21:04]  <mitch> i don't know yet how to address the tap-and-hold stuff
[16:21:12]  <mitch> it's pretty important for touchscreen stuff
[16:21:29]  <mitch> oh, and touchscreen-mode probably needs to be honored by more widges
[16:26:17]  ***  ifoox has left chat #gtk-devel (Leaving).
[16:32:02]  ***  ifoox has joined chat #gtk-devel.
[16:32:29]  <jrb> mclasen: did you add insensative rows at some point/
[16:32:29]  <jrb> ?
[16:34:35]  ***  henrique has left chat #gtk-devel (Remote closed the connection).
[16:35:07]  <mclasen> yes
[16:35:16]  <mclasen> they are not perfect, but they are there
[16:35:49]  <jrb^ ah -- they're per cell renderer.  found them
[16:36:14]  <mclasen^ if all cells are insensitive, we treat the row as insensitive
[16:38:21]  <mclasen> about that search dialog placement
[16:38:50]  <mclasen> do you have a proposal for an api that allows to embed the entry, or even provide your own ?
[16:42:19]  <jrb^ don't really have an API in mind, other than:
[16:42:26]  <jrb> set_location_func()
[16:42:35]  <jrb> set_custom_entry ()
[16:43:56]  <mclasen> hmm, ok. does the treeview need anything beyond an entry ? It just connect to some entry signal, right ?
[16:46:10]  <jrb> yeah
[16:46:22]  <jrb> mclasen: actually, the whole shebang can be done via public apis
[16:46:24]  <jrb> (Thanks kris!)
[16:46:44]  <kris> ??
[16:47:21]  <jrb^ interactive search.  It can be done outside the treeview
[16:47:45]  <kris> oh
[16:54:01]  <mclasen> hmm, anything else to discuss ? I'll be gone shortly...
[16:54:29]  ***  GTKool_2kx has left chat #gtk-devel.
[16:55:57]  <mclasen> I plan to do a stable GTK+ release towards the end of the week. Any fixes I should wait for ?
[16:58:22]  <mclasen> ok, see you next week

