**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Tue Jan  9 14:15:59 2007

Jan 09 14:15:59 -->     You are now talking on #gtk-devel
Jan 09 14:46:52 -->     ebassi (~ebassi@86.149.197.190) has joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 14:58:00 <kris>  i am here already
Jan 09 14:58:18 <kris>  survived the beer during the apple announcement
Jan 09 15:01:07 <mclasen>       good thing
Jan 09 15:01:18 <mclasen>       we don't quite have quorum yet
Jan 09 15:01:24 <kris>  nope
Jan 09 15:01:37 <mclasen>       lets wait a little bit for rambokid etc
Jan 09 15:01:45 <mclasen>       I have one hour time
Jan 09 15:02:22 -->     chpe (~chpe@pD954FFE0.dip0.t-ipconnect.de) has
joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:02:34 <kris>  did you see rambo's tooltip reply?
Jan 09 15:03:06 <mclasen>       I just spotted it, but haven't read yet
Jan 09 15:03:14 *       mclasen shakes his head some more about GTKVTS
Jan 09 15:03:31 <kris>  heh
Jan 09 15:03:43 <mclasen>       every single one of the menu tests
sets a tearoff title and asserts that it is non-NULL
Jan 09 15:03:46 <mclasen>       wtf ?
Jan 09 15:03:50 <kris>  mclasen: I heard there seem to be issues with
drag and drop in 2.10.7
Jan 09 15:03:55 <mclasen>       wouldn't it be enough to do that in  one test ?
Jan 09 15:03:58 <kris>  mclasen: did you change any dnd code by chance?
Jan 09 15:04:07 <mclasen>       I saw that bug, haven't investigated yet
Jan 09 15:04:21 <kris>  mclasen: I never had a really high "dunk" of
the gtkvts people
Jan 09 15:04:27 <kris>  if that's proper english ...
Jan 09 15:05:31 <mclasen>       so you are back to working on tooltips ?
Jan 09 15:06:02 <kris>  i will probably have some time to polish it
more and put it in svn
Jan 09 15:06:11 <kris>  will read tim's reply in detail tomorrow
Jan 09 15:06:16 <mclasen>       great
Jan 09 15:06:35 <kris>  if you have any input on the tooltips, please
reply as soon as you have time :)
Jan 09 15:06:46 <mclasen>       I'll read/reply tonight
Jan 09 15:07:33 <kris>  great
Jan 09 15:07:43 <kris>  I want this api in 2.12, and I want it to be great
Jan 09 15:07:59 <kris>  I am working on improving treeview in my free
time as much as I can ...
Jan 09 15:08:16 <kris>  you probably saw the recent scrolling bug
fixes (which didn't go into 2.10.x btw)
Jan 09 15:08:24 <mclasen>       yes
Jan 09 15:08:44 <mclasen>       clearly the new tooltips will be much
more visible/high impact than any amount of treeview fixes...
Jan 09 15:08:53 <kris>  yes
Jan 09 15:09:07 <kris>  but I am very happy with the scrolling bug
testsuite -- scrolling bugs have been chasing me since 2.2
Jan 09 15:09:17 <kris>  qn
Jan 09 15:09:18 <mclasen>       did you commit the testsuite too ?
Jan 09 15:09:27 <kris>  no, it's on the url I pointed at in my blog
Jan 09 15:09:40 <kris>  I want to integrate the testsuite with gtk+
once gtk+ gets a proper testsuite setup
Jan 09 15:10:20 <mclasen>       I thought some people were working on that
Jan 09 15:10:31 <mclasen>       but I haven't seen anything concrete
coming out of that
Jan 09 15:11:17 <kris>  and when I am ever done with treeview for 2.x,
I want to get back to combobox, entrycompletion maintenance ...
Jan 09 15:11:26 <kris>  I feel I should be responsible for those since
I actually wrote them ...
Jan 09 15:11:49 <mclasen>       by now, they have beome at least as
much my responsibility than yours...
Jan 09 15:12:10 <kris>  I knk
Jan 09 15:12:11 <mclasen>       anyway, did you see any other dnd
problems with 2.10.7 apart from the thunderbird bug ?
Jan 09 15:12:12 -->     rambokid (~timj@d003075.adsl.hansenet.de) has
joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:12:16 <kris>  I know, just fixed a bunch of stuff in it
Jan 09 15:12:20 <kris>  (thanks for that btw)
Jan 09 15:12:41 <kris>  mclasen: I just heard a friend complaining
that there is some dnd brokenness in 2.10.7
Jan 09 15:12:53 <kris>  welcome rambokid
Jan 09 15:12:58 -->     fer
(~fherrera@a88-115-27-99.elisa-laajakaista.fi) has joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:13:04 <kris>  hello fernando
Jan 09 15:13:09 <mclasen>       hmm, the only possibly related change
I see in 2.10 is #122688
Jan 09 15:13:22 <mclasen>       hey rambokid
Jan 09 15:13:28 <fer>   hello
Jan 09 15:13:29 -->     tristan (~trisan@mail.touchtunes.com) has
joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:13:31 <kris>  mclasen: I didn't commit any treeview dnd
change, so I don't see how treeview could be the issue here
Jan 09 15:13:48 <mclasen>       kris: I'll look at it tonight
Jan 09 15:14:04 <mclasen>       should we officially start the meeting
by collecting agenda items ?
Jan 09 15:14:12 <kris>  mclasen: okay, if it really is a tree view
issue, please forward
Jan 09 15:14:16 <mclasen>       sure
Jan 09 15:14:24 <kris>  mclasen: but I will be a little less
responsive in the coming 2.5 weeks
Jan 09 15:14:36 <kris>  mclasen: (exam at the end of Jan, which I
really need to pass :)
Jan 09 15:14:44 <mclasen>       understood
Jan 09 15:15:42 <ebassi>        hey everyone
Jan 09 15:15:48 <mclasen>       so, what I want do discuss today is
how we get 2.12 development back on track
Jan 09 15:15:49 <kris>  no festival in the summer for me if I don't pass, so :)
Jan 09 15:16:05 <mclasen>       and the recent threading discussion
Jan 09 15:16:06 -->     tko (~tk@jumbo180.adsl.netsonic.fi) has joined
#gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:16:24 <kris>  mclasen: maybe we should announce on #gnome-hackers too?
Jan 09 15:16:29 <kris>  or maybe we should just start
Jan 09 15:16:37 <mclasen>       kris: announce what ?
Jan 09 15:16:41 <kris>  the meeting?
Jan 09 15:16:47 <mclasen>       oh, I'd say just start
Jan 09 15:16:57 <mclasen>       its 3:15 already, I have to leave at 4
Jan 09 15:16:59 <kris>  alrighty
Jan 09 15:17:27 -->     juanjo (~juanjo@cm0007.red.mundo-r.com) has
joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:18:07 <kris>  did you change the agenda since your last mail?
Jan 09 15:18:18 <mclasen>       I put the threading issue on it
Jan 09 15:18:25 -->     lewing
(~lewing@cpe-70-112-186-182.austin.res.rr.com) has joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:18:44 <kris>  ok
Jan 09 15:18:53 <mclasen>       so, 2.12 development first
Jan 09 15:19:26 <mclasen>       I expect that I'll be able to devote
~2 days per week to GTK+ in the near term
Jan 09 15:19:44 <mclasen>       and now that the big 2.10 bug push is
over, I'll invest that time into 2.12 features
Jan 09 15:20:23 -->     mitch (~mitch@91.64.139.140) has joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:20:27 <mclasen>       the things I personally want to look
at first is the regexp code and the gtkbuilder stuff
Jan 09 15:20:42 -->     pbor|out
(~urk@host181-85-dynamic.0-87-r.retail.telecomitalia.it) has joined
#gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:21:14 <mclasen>       what do others want to get in 2.12 ?
kris talked about tooltips already
Jan 09 15:21:25 <fer>   how is the gtkbuilder status?
Jan 09 15:21:27 <kris>  I 100% want tooltips in 2.12
Jan 09 15:21:37 <mclasen>       fer: I just mentioned it
Jan 09 15:21:40 <fer>   does it only need review? or there is some
more coding needed after tristan patches
Jan 09 15:21:54 <tko>   what's the schedule for 2.12, roughly?
Jan 09 15:22:05 <mclasen>       fer: I haven't really looked at the
latest patches, so I can't say right now
Jan 09 15:22:23 <mclasen>       tko: I'd say that depends on what
people want to get in and what amount of work it needs
Jan 09 15:22:25 <kris>  I just loaded the notes of our meeting at guadec here
Jan 09 15:22:29 <tristan>       I can say that documentation is lacking
Jan 09 15:22:37 <tristan>       and - the parser sucks
Jan 09 15:22:39 <tristan>       well
Jan 09 15:22:41 <tko>   btw http://www.gtk.org/plan/ is slightly out of day
Jan 09 15:22:41 <kris>  we've been talking about a canvas, but I guess
we won't be able to get that in 2.12
Jan 09 15:22:47 <mclasen>       since we are already too late for
gnome 2.18, we have a little bit of flexibility
Jan 09 15:22:50 <kris>  tko: I've been wanting to update that for months ...
Jan 09 15:23:03 <mclasen>       tko: rather, it is totally out of date
Jan 09 15:23:04 <tristan>       "sucks" means that parse errors are
not reported in a friendly way
Jan 09 15:23:09 <kris>  tko: yesterday I thought of proposing to
update that page after today's meeting :)
Jan 09 15:23:21 <mclasen>       good proposal
Jan 09 15:23:55 <kris>  mclasen: I take it you are logging today's
meeting?  so we can upload that too
Jan 09 15:24:07 <tristan>       mclasen, if its possible and fits in
the schedule - I'd like to work on extending GtkAction to work better
with builder etc.
Jan 09 15:24:21 <tristan>       but better focus on builder first I guess.
Jan 09 15:24:27 <mclasen>       kris: yea, I'm logging
Jan 09 15:24:37 <kris>  maybe it's a good idea to post a summary on
the GtkBuilder status to gtk-devel-list?
Jan 09 15:25:16 <mclasen>       kris: sounds like a good idea; maybe
post status summaries of all the big items we decide to work on for
2.12
Jan 09 15:25:30 <mclasen>       that would be regex, gtkbuilder, tooltips so far
Jan 09 15:25:58 <mclasen>       kris: did we have other things on the
agenda back at guadec ?
Jan 09 15:26:07 <kris>  yes, but the person responsible for each of
those feature should post such a mail
Jan 09 15:26:25 <kris>  I can post a mail on tooltips after I read
tim's mail and maybe even committed it to svn
Jan 09 15:26:29 <kris>  who will post for GtkBuilder?
Jan 09 15:26:43 <fer>   jdahlin is not here ...
Jan 09 15:26:51 <kris>  another item was the canvas, as I just
mentioned; but I don't think that will make it for 2.12
Jan 09 15:26:55 <tristan>       I can post my thoughts - not sure
exactly whats expected
Jan 09 15:26:56 <pbor|out>      (some time ago there has also been
some work on gspell)
Jan 09 15:27:16 <kris>  another item -- Introspection
Jan 09 15:27:22 <kris>  what's going on with that at the moment?
Jan 09 15:27:27 <mclasen>       tristan: the kind of things you
mentioned earlier sounded like good stuff, e.g. needs better error
checking, could work better with gtkaction, etc
Jan 09 15:27:50 <kris>  tristan: I would say something like "how far
are we?  what's still needed?"
Jan 09 15:27:51 <mclasen>       kris: nothing atm. I basically dropped
it, and nobody picked it up yet
Jan 09 15:27:56 <kris>  ok
Jan 09 15:28:19 <kris>  then we have multi-line labels / libsexy cherry picking
Jan 09 15:28:20 <tristan>       mclasen, kris; ok great - I'll post my comments
Jan 09 15:28:34 <kris>  that's something what could happen -- if there
is somebody to pick up the ball here
Jan 09 15:28:44 <kris>  and post status/ideas to gtk-devel-list too ....
Jan 09 15:29:03 <mclasen>       there was talk about behdad looking at
it, maybe. but so far, he hasn't afaik
Jan 09 15:29:42 <kris>  okay
Jan 09 15:29:44 <kris>  and IIRC ebassi is here
Jan 09 15:29:49 <kris>  (at least he tab completes :)
Jan 09 15:30:02 <ebassi>        yep, and I even greeted everyone ;-)
Jan 09 15:30:04 <kris>  I have an item on recent file code updates:
GtkRenctAction
Jan 09 15:30:12 <kris>  GtkFileChooser integration
Jan 09 15:30:17 <kris>  anything going on in that area?
Jan 09 15:30:27 -->     garnachAFK (~carlos@84.77.168.153) has joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:30:36 <ebassi>        kris: I resumed my work on
GtkRecentAction to get the ball rolling again
Jan 09 15:30:40 <kris>  nice
Jan 09 15:30:45 <--     juanjo has quit (Connection reset by peer)
Jan 09 15:30:57 -->     juanjo (~juanjo@cm0007.red.mundo-r.com) has
joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:31:12 <mclasen>       so, based on these items, can we come
up with a rough schedule for 2.12 ?
Jan 09 15:31:13 <ebassi>        the UIManager bit is still relying on
the hacky approach by mclasen, but I'm trying to clean that up
Jan 09 15:31:29 <kris>  mclasen: I also have international calender support
Jan 09 15:31:48 <kris>  I think that is a behdad item too?
Jan 09 15:31:51 <mclasen>       hmm, yes
Jan 09 15:32:12 <mclasen>       I think roozbeh or one of his
coworkers had glib patches
Jan 09 15:32:16 <kris>  okay, if we drop canvas and introspection;
which seems likely
Jan 09 15:32:28 <kris>  I guess the timeschedule more or less depends
o=n GtkBuilder
Jan 09 15:32:33 <kris>  since that looks like that biggest item to me
Jan 09 15:32:36 <ebassi>        kris: what's missing for introspection?
Jan 09 15:32:53 <kris>  matthias knows most about introspection I would guess
Jan 09 15:33:17 -->     mbarnes (~mbarnes@nat-pool-bos.redhat.com) has
joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:34:04 <mclasen>       ebassi: it needs someone to drive it
to completion. I'd say it is 75% there
Jan 09 15:34:12 <mclasen>       the big missing piece is a header parser
Jan 09 15:34:17 <mclasen>       and general robustness
Jan 09 15:34:37 <kris>  another thing for a 2.12 time schedule: the
next cairo release?
Jan 09 15:34:57 <mclasen>       thats expected to happen before the
end of january
Jan 09 15:35:08 <mclasen>       but I don't think we depend on any new
cairo api, or do we ?
Jan 09 15:35:41 <kris>  no, but it's on my guadec list :)
Jan 09 15:35:45 <kris>  but it looks like that wont be a problem
Jan 09 15:36:31 <mclasen>       ok
Jan 09 15:36:37 <pbor|out>      will gvfs git in the 2.12 schedule?
Jan 09 15:36:41 <mclasen>       no
Jan 09 15:36:48 <pbor|out>      ok
Jan 09 15:37:03 <mclasen>       alex said that it won't be ready
before gnome 2.20
Jan 09 15:37:31 <mclasen>       I think that we should aim to include
that early in the next glib devel cycle
Jan 09 15:39:06 <kris>  if it's ready and getting there I fully agree
Jan 09 15:39:49 <kris>  as for the gtk+ 2.12 schedule I am really
afraid we will have to start looking at march/april this year
Jan 09 15:39:57 <kris>  (at least)
Jan 09 15:40:24 <mclasen>       I was just about to propose something
like mid to end of March as target date
Jan 09 15:40:33 -->     bratsche
(~cody@adsl-68-94-31-189.dsl.rcsntx.swbell.net) has joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:40:45 <mclasen>       if we aim for getting the feature
merge-ready by mid-February
Jan 09 15:41:04 <kris>  I am not sure if med-Feb is doable ...
Jan 09 15:41:10 <mclasen>       ok
Jan 09 15:41:47 <mclasen>       does end of Feb sound more doable for
landing all 2.12 features ?
Jan 09 15:42:14 -->     jpe (~jpe@c-71-232-26-186.hsd1.ma.comcast.net)
has joined #gtk-devel
Jan 09 15:42:27 <kris>  end of Feb for feature, end of March for
release might be nice -- but maybe we should wait for the various
status reports on gtk-devel-list first?
Jan 09 15:43:13 <mclasen>       yes, lets keep that schedule tentative
until we know where the features stand
Jan 09 15:43:30 <mclasen>       ok, I  have about 15 min left, and I
would like to discuss threading before I leave
Jan 09 15:44:12 <mclasen>       Currently every single application I
run complains that threads are initialized too late...
Jan 09 15:46:09 <mclasen>       rambokid: is your verdict on late
thread initialization in gslice final ?
Jan 09 15:46:40 <mclasen>       I really think we cannot start
demanding that every application calls g_thread_init() just because
some library underneath might use threads behind its back
Jan 09 15:47:03 <rambokid>      i think the most practical approach is
to allow late g_thread_init in general, but it'll take significant
effort to a) implement this, and b) maintain it (or validate the
current code)
Jan 09 15:47:31 <rambokid>      so it'll probably take some time until
we can declare this "perfectly supported"
Jan 09 15:47:45 <mclasen>       I thought that it mostly worked fine
so far - with the exception of gslice
Jan 09 15:48:16 <mclasen>       I mean, file chooser backends have
been doing that for quite some time without adverse effects
Jan 09 15:52:38 <mclasen>       rambokid: I haven't looked in detail
at the patch that mmeeks posted. Is that a good starting point for the
required work ?
Jan 09 15:55:25 <mclasen>       we should probably continue that
particular discussion on the mailing list
Jan 09 15:55:49 <mclasen>       before I run off, I'll probably have
to do another round of stable releases soon (like early next week)
Jan 09 15:55:55 <kris>  okay
Jan 09 15:56:05 <mclasen>       to fix some textview api screwup
Jan 09 15:56:18 <kris>  if there is some filechooser stuff to fix, we
should try that soon
Jan 09 15:56:19 <mclasen>       and the glib-links-against-pthread messup
Jan 09 15:56:30 <pbor|out>      huh... which textview issue?
Jan 09 15:56:39 *       pbor|out is interested in those...
Jan 09 15:56:44 <kris>  i saw a mail from federico somewhere where he
claims he has zero time for gtk+
Jan 09 15:56:48 <mclasen>       pbor|out: I changed an internal api
and did't update all callers...
Jan 09 15:56:49 <kris>  ...
Jan 09 15:57:00 <kris>  pbor|out: line numbers crash i guess ...
Jan 09 15:57:16 <pbor|out>      mclasen: ok... haven't seen gedit
reports yet (fortunately) :)
Jan 09 15:57:16 <mclasen>       with federico being unavailable, file
chooser fixes would most likely come from you, if at all...
Jan 09 15:57:29 <mclasen>       pbor: muntyan sent a mail about it
Jan 09 15:57:41 *       pbor|out looks
Jan 09 15:57:50 <rambokid>      mclasen: maybe, maybe not. i just need
the time to sit down and think about the right implementation,
regardless of whether i have to implement it myself or not ;) ...and
need to take the time to inspect the other thread_init related code
portions, like owen did some time ago.
Jan 09 15:57:57 <kris>  mclasen: yes, but I want at least a second
look from somebody before I commit
Jan 09 15:58:23 <mclasen>       kris: sure, I can always have a look
Jan 09 15:58:32 <kris>  mclasen: that'd be cool
Jan 09 15:58:41 <mclasen>       even if I am not as likely to catch
filechooser specific things as federico...
Jan 09 15:58:49 <kris>  when I was sleeping last night I suddely got
ideas on fixing confirm-overwrite ...
Jan 09 15:58:55 <kris>  mclasen: me neither ...
Jan 09 15:59:22 <kris>  mclasen: the file chooser is a pretty
complicated thing, we are both not able to catch all specific issues
....
Jan 09 15:59:40 <mclasen>       ok, quick thing before I have to take
off: is this time ok for everybody ?
Jan 09 15:59:48 <mclasen>       or should we move to a different
day/time for next week ?
Jan 09 15:59:54 <ebassi>        it's ok for me
Jan 09 15:59:59 <mclasen>       assuming we want to pick up the weekly
schedule again
Jan 09 16:00:13 <kris>  this time should be good enough for now
Jan 09 16:00:22 <kris>  it would be really great to have a weekly meeting again
Jan 09 16:00:38 <ebassi>        indeed
Jan 09 16:00:41 <mclasen>       ok, lets target next tuesday again then
Jan 09 16:00:45 <mclasen>       I'll send out mail
Jan 09 16:00:49 <kris>  cool!
Jan 09 16:00:52 <mclasen>       and I'll post the logs in some form
Jan 09 16:01:00 <kris>  mclasen: or just mail me the log
Jan 09 16:01:04 <kris>  I can try updating the website ....
Jan 09 16:01:09 <mclasen>       thanks for showing up, everybody, see you soon
Jan 09 16:01:12 <bratsche>      Is it okay if I just hang out and read
what you guys have to say?  I'm mostly hacking on Win32 stuff in gtk,
but I'm interested in other stuff.
Jan 09 16:01:24 <mclasen>       ...and btw. I won't be able to make
the FOSDEM meeting
Jan 09 16:01:27 <kris>  bratsche: no problem at all, that's why it's
all public :)
Jan 09 16:01:37 <mclasen>       but that shouldn't stop any
gtk-related activities there
Jan 09 16:01:39 <kris>  bratsche: and if you have comments, please make them
Jan 09 16:01:47 <bratsche>      Just checking.. I didn't say anything
when I joined, because I didn't want to disturb.
Jan 09 16:01:49 *       mclasen takes off
Jan 09 16:02:05 <kris>  talk to you later mclasen
Jan 09 16:02:13 <mclasen>       sure
Jan 09 16:02:35 <bratsche>      kris: I don't know anything about the
threads stuff and all.. I'm trying to take on the easy things right
now. :)
Jan 09 16:03:09 <bratsche>      I posted a patch last night for
drawing focus on expanders with no labels, for example.  That's the
type of stuff I want to hack on right now. :)
Jan 09 16:04:29 <bratsche>      And Win32 stuff.
Jan 09 16:05:17 <tristan>       mmmm expanders
Jan 09 16:05:27 <tristan>       reminds me of my expander patch
Jan 09 16:05:28 <tristan>       heh
**** ENDING LOGGING AT Tue Jan  9 16:07:27 2007
